---
layout: post
title: Week 10
published: true
---


We began Week 10 with a discussion of project 4, "Darwin," in which we simulate the interactions of creatures on a grid.  At first this project reminded me a lot of one of our CS 312 projects that introduced us to object-oriented programming.  However, project 4 is more challenging than that project for a variety of reasons: we have to design the classes and write the code from scratch instead of adding onto an existing framwork, we're doing it in C++ rather than Java, and we're not allowed to use getters or setters as a way to encourage good design.

The limitation not to use getters and setters turned out to be more difficult than I had anticipated.  My partner and I really had to think through the interactions between the classes in order to decide where to store data and where certain tasks would be completed.  Although some options were clearly better than others in terms of keeping the classes independent, we also came across some situations in which there were tradeoffs to either choice.

For example, when moving a creature across Darwin's grid, we had the option to send the entire grid from Darwin to the creature and ask the creature to move itself.  That option would allow the creature to be completely in charge of its own movement; however, changing the implementation of Darwin's grid would then force us to modify code in every single creature.  In the end, we chose to have Darwin send the creature's current grid coordinates to the creature, and the creature would send back a new set of coordinates that it had transformed according to its current direction.  Darwin could then use the new coordinates to place the creature.  In this way, the creature performed its own movement, but Darwin maintained sole control of the grid.

One of the challenges I've encountered with programming in C++ is keeping track of its similarities and differences from Java and C#, two other object-oriented languages in which I have worked. C++ is just similar enough to those languages for the differences to be very confusing! Therefore, my tip-of-the-week is this tutorial written specifically for C++ learners who already know Java, which most UTCS students have learned in CS 312/314: [Java to C++ Transition Tutorial](http://cs.brown.edu/courses/cs123/docs/java_to_cpp.shtml).
