---
layout: post
title: Week 9
published: true
---


During Week 9 we finished Project 3, our second pair programming project and third project overall.  I was a bit surprised by how smoothly completing the project went.  The most challenging aspect of the whole project was probably writing tests, in part because the very process of writing tests brought up questions about how our allocator should behave in "corner case" situations.  For example, we had to think about what the allocate method should return when the caller requested an allocated space of size zero.

The process my partner and I went through--writing code, writing test cases, tweaking the code based on questions that came up while writing the test cases--made me think about the process of testing and how programmers can make this process most effective.  For example, I've read software engineering blogs that recommend writing unit tests before implementing anything.  Writing unit tests first forces the programmer to clarify exactly how his or her program should behave.  Not only does clarifying the design upfront make things easier for the programmer down the road, but I think going through that process from a more detached mindset probably leads to better designs.  After you get bogged down in implementation details, it's easy to make decisions based on what is most straightforward or natural to implement rather than what is best for the client.

My tip-of-the-week is this blog post by Microsoft software developer Steven Sanderson about how to write good unit tests.  What stood out to me about this post in comparison to other unit testing guides I found was that it discusses the limitations of unit testing in addition to the benefits.  In fact, the author explains that poorly-thought-out unit tests can actually be a huge impediment to refactoring code. [Writing Great Unit Tests: Best and Worst Practices](http://blog.stevensanderson.com/2009/08/24/writing-great-unit-tests-best-and-worst-practises/)
