---
layout: post
title: Week 3
published: true
---


During week 3, we turned in our first programming project (which involved the Collatz conjecture).  For me, turning in the first project of the semester is always slightly intimidating, because I wonder whether I have overlooked something or made some mistake along the way.  I always feel more confident in my work once the graders have given my first submission their stamp of approval.  Hopefully, I did a solid job on Collatz and didn't miss anything.

The other interesting event this week was the guest speaker from Bloomberg who spoke to the class on Wednesday.  I was initially surprised that a company I associate with financial data was so big on software engineering, but it makes perfect sense when you think about it.

I always appreciate getting the inside scoop on a company from one of its employees.  Looking at the list of companies who will be attending a career fair can be really overwhelming if you haven't heard of many of them: how do you know which ones to pursue?  Do any of them have characteristics (like type of work, amount of overtime, location, company size, or anything important to you) that would be a deal-breaker?  Are any of them particularly appealing and worthy of extra effort?  Sometimes, an information session is the only way to get the level of detail you need to determine your top choices.

However, with so many information sessions going on throughout the days leading up to the career fair, it's impossible to attend all of them.  Therefore, my tip-of-the-week is to check out companies on [glassdoor.com](http://www.glassdoor.com/index.htm).  I have used this site extensively while considering full-time opportunities, and while its company reviews are not a perfect resource (non-random sample of employees, no chance to ask questions), the ability to read opinions from a large number of employees who had the freedom to post anonymously is hard to beat.  The anonymous salary reports are also a great way to know what kind of starting salary to expect and to be prepared for salary negotiations.
