---
layout: post
title: Week 8
published: true
---


It's Week 8, and we're starting Project 3, our second pair programming project.  Project 3 requires us to write code for a class called Allocator, which creates a kind of "poor man's heap" that allocates and deallocates space.  When I first learned about the project, I thought it might be extremely difficult given that real heap management algorithms are so complicated.  Fortunately, however, Professor Downing gave us additional guidance about how to create a very simple Allocator class that still had some clever mechanisms to make allocation and deallocation reasonably efficient.

In addition to tips for Project 3, the lectures this week focused on uses of the new and delete keyword with native arrays.  We learned that there are some subtle differences between what happens when you create an array on the stack and what happens when you create an array on the heap.  Professor Downing also discussed the pitfalls of using the heap.  Memory leaks are an obvious example because C++ doesn't have a garbage collector, but problems also result when you call delete too early, more than once, or on the wrong address.  The suggested way to avoid these common errors is to use an abstraction such as a vector that can wrap the calls to new and delete.  As long as the chosen container class handles these calls correctly, the programmer is prevented from making silly mistakes.

As we talked about C++ standard library classes that can help programmers avoid heap memory management errors, I become curious about how C programmers accomplish the same thing.  After all, C is a procedural language rather than an object-oriented language.  I found an interesting article in a series called "Writing Bug-Free C Code" by Jerry Jongerius that talks about an interface he wrote to solve that very problem.  I'm providing a link to the article as my tip-of-the-week.  Although the article is rather dated, I think it provides a good explanation of the problem at hand and an interesting look at how one experienced programmer addressed it in another language: [Chapter 5: A New Heap Manager](https://www.duckware.com/bugfreec/chapter5.html)
