---
layout: post
title: Week 7
published: true
---


Week 7 was our first exam--dun dun dun!  The exam was on Thursday evening, and we were given one and a half hours to answer a handful of C++ coding questions with the aid of a double-sided notes sheet each student created individually.  As you might expect, pacing yourself and having a well-written notes sheet turned out to be crucial factors in doing well on the test.

When I create notes sheets for timed exams like this one, I try not only to include the greatest quantity of the most important information, but also to arrange it in such a way that I can quickly and easily referece it during the exam itself.  In past open-book exams, I have lost points because it took me too long to find the information I needed to answer a question, so I have become more mindful of using good headers, sensible organization, and even color-coding things on my notes sheets today.

Professor Downing gave us another tip for dealing with the time constraint, which was to start by reading all of the questions and then begin with the ones that seemed easiest.  My own typical strategy is similar: I like to start by tackling the questions in order, but I skip a question here and there if I get stuck or I think a question might take a disproportionately long time to solve.

As far as how to study beforehand, everyone has heard the advice not to cram, but here are two lesser-known tips I have learned from my Psychology major.  First, study in the same location where the exam will be held, or if that isn't possible, study in a variety of locations instead of just one.  You unconciously connect memories of what you learned to the characteristics of your surroundings, and returning to those surroundings or similar surroundings can trigger the recall of those memories later.  Second, briefly review the material you learned right before you go to sleep at night, or even before you take a nap.  Sleep is involved in the formation of memories (although there is some mystery as to how).

Aside from the extra study tips, I think Psychology is a nice major to have along with Computer Science because of the additional perspective it provides on UX design.  If you're interested in UX design, my tip-of-the-week is this highly readable, classic book on the topic: [The Design of Everyday Things](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0465050654/ref=pd_lpo_sbs_dp_ss_1/181-0818089-8569701?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=lpo-top-stripe-1&pf_rd_r=1251Z0ETBZWJ0NPQZAZX&pf_rd_t=201&pf_rd_p=1944687762&pf_rd_i=1452654123) by Don Norman.
