---
layout: post
title: Week 11
published: true
---


During week 11, we finished project 4.  It was definitely the most challenging project so far, largely because of all the tricky design decisions we had to make.  After reading some discussions on Piazza, my partner and I ended up making significant changes to our original design.  Although I do think our final design was better, during our many length discussions it occurred to me that no choice we made could be perfect because there would be tradeoffs to any decision.  If we hadn't had a deadline of Thursday night, we probably could have gone back and forth forever, thinking and rethinking the merits of every facet of our implementation.

This is part of why I believe programming is an art as well as a science.  In addition to the creativity involved, when it comes to higher-level design decisions, there is not necessarily a "correct" way to write a program, nor will the program ever be "perfect."  In the arts, people talk about having to "let go" of a piece when it is has become as good as it can reasonably be, rather than retooling it to death.  Likewise, deadlines force programmers not to fuss and fiddle over their designs for eternity.

My tip-of-the-week is a resource for anyone who would like to do some web programming as a side project.  I recently shared it with a mentee of mine in the Women in Computer Science mentorship program when she expressed an interest in learning how to make websites.  I have created a website as a side project in the past, and enjoyed both the programming aspect and the artistic decisions involved. [HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, and PHP Tutorials](http://www.w3schools.com/html/default.asp).
