---
layout: post
title: Week 13
published: true
---


During week 13, we turned in project 5.  It sure feels good to be done with the last project!  Probably the most interesting piece of knowledge I got out of the project was how to create and use handle classes in C++.  A handle class is a class that contains a pointer to an object and manages (or "handles," I suppose) the object.  The handle class provides access to the object through its interface, but intervenes at certain moments (such as in the copy constructor, when you desire a deep copy of the underlying object) to make sure a method behaves as expected.

In lecture, we continued talking about inheritance in C++ and Java, which we began discussing on Friday of last week.  I'm continuing to find the comparing and contrasting between Java and C++ interesting and useful.  One important distinction between how inheritance works in Java and C++ is the concept of "shadowing" in C++, when a method in the child class that has the same name but a different signature as the method in the parent class will "shadow" or hide the parent's method, preventing the child from "seeing" that method even if the signatures completely match.  Java doesn't work that way, so for someone switching between Java and C++, it's important to remember shadowing as a possible source of errors.

We concluded the week by beginning to talk about reflection.  I've never learned about that feature in either Java or C++ before, so the material is new to me in both languages.

I don't know about anyone else, but lately I'm finding the accumulation of end-of-semester projects and tests to be exhausting.  Therefore, my tip-of-the-week is to try to get plenty of sleep over next week's Thanksgiving break.  It's hard to do mentally taxing activities like programming while running on too little shut-eye! [Sleep Tips.](http://www.webmd.com/sleep-disorders/features/sleep-hygiene?page=3).
