---
layout: post
title: Week 12
published: true
---


It's week 12, and my pair programming partner and I have made a good start on Project 5, which is the last project of the semester. The project is called Life. Our task is to simulate Conway's Game of Life, but with a few added complexities. As of today, my partner and I are getting correct output from our program, but we need to write unit tests, add documentation, edit the constructors and destructors to prevent a remaining memory leak, and create our UML diagram.

I think this project is slightly less difficult than Project 4; it's probably the second most challenging of our projects so far. I'm glad that we could finish our most time-consuming project before those stressfull last few weeks of the semester.  

In class, we began the week by talking about the project specification, and then had another guest speaker who talked about the development process his company uses and the tools they employ at different steps along the way. It was especially interesting to hear him talk about the benefits of continuous integration, given that we've been using Travis CI this semester.

On Friday we returned to discussing C++ code. Right now we're learning about inheritance. Professor Downing did a lot of comparing and contrasting with the way inheritance works in Java versus C++, which was very helpful and interesting. Because most UTCS students learned Java as their first language, I think it's a good common base to build upon when teaching subsequent languages. It's also intrinsically interesting to learn about the differences between languages and to think about why the creators might have made the decisions they did. C++ seems to give you more control over how inheritance works, but can also be more confusing. (This has been a running theme while learning C++.)

My tip-of-the-week is a link to one of many organizations that help expose young people to computer science who might not otherwise have that opportunity: [Girls Who Code](http://girlswhocode.com/). I wish I had learned to see myself as a potential software developer earlier in life than I did. Now, I feel motivated to give other people the chance to feel a spark of interest in the field.

