---
layout: post
title: Week 2
published: true
---


It is now week two of object-oriented programming, and we have started our first project, Collatz.  Most of the class time has been devoted to discussing the project and how to use mathematical tricks and different types of caches to create a good solution.

I think the hardest part of this project for me is going to be learning the various tools we're supposed to use to create and check our code.  I've always been prone to getting impatient while setting up my development environment.  This may just be a personal fault, but I also can't imagine many other computer science students getting excited about waiting for things to install and then fiddling around with dependencies.  I always want to get straight to solving the problem.

However, I also acknowledge that having the right tools and knowing how to get the most value out of them makes a world of difference to productivity.  At my summer internship, I was always so grateful when a more experienced software engineer introduced me to a favorite debugging tool I hadn't heard of before.  Further in the past, I remember what a nightmare it was to program in JavaScript until someone showed me how to use the debugger in Chrome to its maximum potential.

In fact, I have often wished that professors would devote more class time to showing us how to use common and powerful tools.  While there are plenty of resources online, nothing is as helpful as a demonstration.  I suppose, like the students, professors are impatient to get to the good stuff, but I think understanding common tools more deeply would go a long way toward making us better developers.

For my tip-of-the-week, I'd like to share a favorite tool I've discovered for demonstrating Android apps: [Mobizen](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.rsupport.mvagent&hl=en).  Mobizen allows you to smoothly and elegantly mirror your Android phone's screen to a larger screen, which is absolutely wonderful when doing presentations of Android apps you have developed.
