---
layout: post
title: Week 14
published: true
---


Week 14 was the last week of Object-Oriented Programming!  (Because I'm graduating this semester, it was also my last week of classes as an undergraduate.)  This week we took our second and last exam, which I thought was more challenging than the midterm.  We took the exam on Canvas instead of on paper, which was... tolerable, but I would have preferred to do it on paper.  I had to take the makeup exam in a computer lab because my laptop was malfunctioning.  While I was taking the exam, it was a pain to have to scroll up and down to reread the question instructions or to view my entire answer.  Also the tab key didn't work in the Canvas text boxes, which was extremely annoying.  I imagine it was also annoying to those around me, who had to hear the hasty "TAP TAP TAP TAP, TAP TAP TAP TAP, TAP TAP TAP TAP" of me hitting the space bar every time I wanted to add a new line to the body of a method.  Finally, when I submitted my exam, there was some sort of mysterious glitch and my signature to the academic honesty portion didn't get submitted.  I talked to the TA about it afterward and he said it shouldn't affect my grade, but it was still sort of stressful.

Minor gripes about the Canvas exam aside, on the whole I enjoyed this class a lot and would recommend it to other UTCS students.  It was well-organized, and the lectures were clear and engaging.  As for the assignments, I thought they were a good difficulty level, the pair programming option was great, and I appreciated how responsive and thorough Professor Downing usually was when answering questions on Piazza.  The one thing I would warn prospective students about is that if you're hoping to do lots of interviews for jobs and internships, especially any that would require flying out for an on-site interview, you might want to avoid taking this class because of the daily quizzes.  When I signed up for this class, I hadn't realized that Professor Downing was going to change the policy about dropping the lowest five quiz grades.  Since I was interviewing for full-time jobs, I had no choice but to miss several quizzes for on-site interviews.

My last tip-of-the-week is this informative StackOverflow question, which I found recently when thinking about things to install on the new laptop I will be purchasing over break. It looks like everyone is all about Visual Studio! [Best C++ IDE for Windows](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/89275/best-c-ide-or-editor-for-windows).
